>> Rodriguez: Let's look at how we would
make our multiple column layout actually
responsive and
stack those columns on mobile.
So, we're gonna go back
over to our code here.
We have again a refresher.
>> Rodriguez: This email right now we
have three separate columns in here,
if we were to shrink
this down a little bit,
then those columns aren't going anywhere.
That's theie behavior we want.
We know that this can be displayed
on smaller mobile screens and
we wanna make sure that stacks and it
shuffles down to that single column layout
that people can easily scroll through.
So if we go in here again, we have these
three tenets of responsive design.
We have fluid layouts, fluid images,
and then media queries.
So we have the fluid images that because
we're doing that response by default
approach to our images.
So the next step is making
these fixed with tables,
fluid so that they shrink down and
fit to that screen.
The main one here is going to be that 600
pixel wide container table that we set up.
So we have this width equals 600.
This attribute on our container table.
So we want to change that
to be a 100% wide but
only on mobile screens, smaller screens.
So the only way we can do that
is by targeting it with a class.
So make it class equals, say mobile.
And then we'll go up in our email and
clear that out so
we can see it from scratch.
You can see I have this place holder for
responsive styles.
So I'm gonna use a media query,
which hopefully everybody's familiar
with the syntax for a media query.
We're gonna say @media.
Since we're on a screen,
we're gonna target only screens.
And then we're gonna give it
some sort of test for whether or
not these styles are being applied.
So we're gonna say max-width
equals 600 pixels,
and then we can open up our braces there.
And then we can start adding all
of our mobile styles in here.
So right now we just wanna
update that mobile table
to be 100% wide instead of 600
pixels to make it fluid for
those smaller screens,
anything that's below 600 pixels.
So we'll say dot mobile to target that
table, and then we'll update it so
that the width is equal to 100%.
But you have to add
the important rule here,
because we're using those inline styles so
we have that with actual view.
We have those in mind styles.
Anything we wanna override and
the head of our email we have to do so
using important to make that the most
important CSS property to be applied.
So we can save that.
Pop back over into browser.
And you can see now that this main part
of the email is shrinking down to that
smaller screen size.
But we still don't have these
columns stacking as we want them to.
This is gonna be way too small for
people to read on mobile devices.
So we want to make those stack
in a single column layout.
So uses that exact same approach instead
of targeting this main mobile container.
We're going to target the individual
tables that make up those three columns.
So if we go down to our column section
here, we have this first table,
we can add a class there.
Let's make a block then we can copy and
paste that to our other two tables.
Because we want those to just be an entire
100% wide block so that they stack.
So here we're gonna go back
up into our media query and
then we can target that block element,
or that black class on those tables.
We can make it so that the display has
black, which will help out a little bit.
And then the main thing is setting
that width again to a 100%.
And adding that important rule, so
it overrides any of those inline styles.
Let's add that here as well.
If all goes well,
then we can go back over, refresh,
and then we have our single column layout.
So relatively easy to do that,
we're just using that class,
targeting specific elements
that happen to be fixed width.
And then making those, that fold with
that 100% wide, that fluid table.
So when we're below 600 pixels
it'll shrink to that size.
When we get over 600 pixels, it's gonna
revert back to that three column layout
like we like to see on desktop.
I know there's a kind of debate about
whether or not you should do design for
desktop verse or mobile first.
For email, it generally makes sense to
do desktop first just because some email
clients won't like the mobile
version of the email.
So if you're designing
everything fluid by default, and
then trying to override that with fixed
with stuff using something like media
queries some email clients won't respect
those media queries so you'll get that
mobile version, desktop clients instead
an that's not the intended behavior.
So well it's a little bit different
from what you typically do on a website.
We are using that desktop first approach
in designing this fixed width desktop
version and adjusting it for
mobile using those media queries instead.
So if we were to open this up and let miss
and fingers crossed, everything's working.
So the Apple mails brilliant as always,
if we go over to Outlook, now,
we have a little bit of an issue here.
Probably with that width sizing on,
those tables which we can
adjust to using what's there.
But then if we go into one of our mobile
emails you can see that we have that
single column stacking which is awesome,
and that's the intended behavior there.
So this traditional responsive
approach is awesome, like I mentioned.
Te big problem for a long time, was Gmail,
that was stripping out the head
of our email campaigns and
then those embedded styles.
So it would never see those media queries.
All those response and styles were
wholesale just ripped out of the email and
it wouldn't display that for Gmail apps or
the Gmail web client if
it's on a mobile device.
But that's been fixed as
of a couple years ago.
They've been solid and reliable
haven't made any updates really bad.
Break that for a long period of time,
there was one I think last year
that broke that behavior for a couple of
weeks and there and that's always a risk.
So there are other techniques that have
been developed to account for that.